KHR_node_visibility Draft Proposal (#2410)
KhronosGroup/glTF: extensions/2.0/Khronos/KHR_node_visibility/README.md

# KHR\_node\_visibility

## Contributors

- Dwight Rodgers, Adobe
- Peter Martin, Adobe
- Emmett Lalish, Google
- Alexey Knyazev, Independent

## Status

Release Candidate

## Dependencies

Written against the glTF 2.0 spec.

## Overview

> This extension allows to control visibility of node hierarchies. It is intended for use in conjunction with `KHR_animation_pointer` and/or interactivity extensions.

Reviewer: Should we also note that it can be used by itself? Because it can be.

## Extending Nodes

The `KHR_node_visibility` extension object is added to the objects within the `nodes` array. The extension object contains a single boolean `visible` property. This value is mutable through JSON pointers as defined in the glTF 2.0 Asset Object Model and controls visibility of the node that contains it and all its children nodes recursively. A value of `false` causes all nodes below in the hierarchy to be omitted from display, even any nodes below that have a value of `true`.

> When a node is not visible, all its visual features including but not limited to meshes, light sources (e.g., attached with `KHR_lights_punctual`), point clouds, particles, billboards, volumetric effects, etc., are not rendered. Visibility affects neither cameras, nor node's interactivity features such as selectability or hoverability.

Reviewer: Nitpick: Prefer English words over Latin initialisms.

```suggestion
When a node is not visible, all its visual features including but not limited to meshes, light sources (such as attached with `KHR_lights_punctual`), point clouds, particles, billboards, volumetric effects, and so on, are not rendered. Visibility affects neither cameras, nor node's interactivity features such as selectability or hoverability.
```

> # KHR_node_visibility

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: We often escape underscores when outside of code blocks, such as this title string here.  In markdown, underscores are used to denote _italics_, so the above string may be rendered by some systems with _node_ in italics.  At some point GitHub markdown became smart enough to avoid mid-word italics like this, so the problem isn't always visible anymore.  But for future-proofing and compatibility with other markdown systems, I still recommend following what we've done in other extensions:

`# KHR\_node\_visibility`

## Contributors

- Dwight Rodgers, Adobe
- Peter Martin, Adobe
- Emmett Lalish, Google
- Alexey Knyazev, Independent

## Status

Draft

## Dependencies

Written against the glTF 2.0 spec.

## Overview

This extension allows glTF animations and interactivity to control visibility of node hierarchies. It is intended for use in conjunction with `KHR_animation_pointer` and/or `KHR_interactivity` extensions.

## Extending Nodes

The `KHR_node_visibility` extension object is added to the objects within the `nodes` array. The extension object contains a single boolean `visible` property. This value is mutable through JSON pointers as defined in the glTF 2.0 Asset Object Model and controls visibility of the node that contains it and all its children nodes recursively. A value of `false` causes all nodes below in the hierarchy to be omitted from display, even any nodes below that have a value of `true`.

> |             |   Type    |               Description              |      Required      |

Reviewer: The titles here are center-aligned, but they are left-aligned in most files in this repo.

|-------------|-----------|----------------------------------------|--------------------|

> | **visible** | `boolean` | Specifies whether the node is visible. | No, default: `true`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **visible** | `boolean` | Specifies whether the node is visible. | No, default: `true` |
```

> In other words, a node is visible if and only if its own `visible` property is `true` and all its parents are visible. This allows a single change of a `visible` property at a high level of the hierarchy to hide or show complex (multi-node) objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, a node is visible if and only if its own `visible` property is `true` and all its ancestors are visible. This allows a single change of a `visible` property at a high level of the hierarchy to hide or show complex (multi-node) objects.
```

Author: The extension uses the same terms as the core spec.
